Welcome back to this lecture on creating a basic flask for.
We're going to explore how we can use that flask.
WITF library and the W.T. forms packages to quickly create forms from our flask Python scripts.
I want to first discuss the main components we're going to be using.
We first need to configure a secret key for security for that SRF then we create a WITF form class and
then we create fields for each part of the form that we want to display on the template page.
Then we set up a view function we add a parameters that function called methods is equal to a list of
GET and POST strings.
Then we create an instance of the Form class and then we handle form submission.
All right.
One quick thing to keep in mind is for the sake of this example we're going to create the form class
in the same pie script as the view functions that later on when we see how to structure larger applications
we're actually usually going to separate our forms into their own forms of paice file and then import
them from there.
Right now let's keep everything in one file that we can see how everything interacts at once.
Let's head over to our text editor Laura.
Here we are at the text editor to start off with.
We just need one basic thought PI file and then underneath our templates folder I have indexed that
each time.
So it's one to multiple file and one high script file.
So let me now start off with our basic pi.
Or just start off with quite a few imports.
We'll say from flask import flask and we'll also be rendering a template.
And then we're going to say from flask underscore WITF import flask form a flask form is going to be
a class that we're going to inherit from to create our own forms.
Then we're going to save from W-2 forms import and this is where we can actually import fields that
are going to go into the form.
So very basic ones are things like string field and the other most basic one is submit field which are
pretty much always going to have if you intend to submit the form.
So now that we have our imports let's create our application just as we've always done then we pass
in the bill to name variable and then we need to configure a secret key in order to have the C-s RF
security work.
So to do this we say grab our application and then grab the config.
And this is essentially a configuration dictionary for application and the key we're going to grab here
is called Secrets underscore key.
And this is a key that's actually built into a flask application configuration and you can set this
to any string you want.
Now later on when we actually deploy flask applications we're going to show much better ways to configure
a secret key.
Right now we're just going to put a string out in the open so we can say what I really want my secret
key or whatever string you decide on in the future will show you a much better way of doing this.
But for now just so it's clear we're going to set it up as a string.
Usually we want to set it up as an environment variable.
So it's not readable for me thought PI script in case someone's able to see that by script.
OK.
So now we need to do two things we want to create an instance or basically create there'll be a form
class and then we want to set a view function that actually creates the instance of that form class
and then checks if it's a valid submission.
So let's start by creating a WTU a form class we'll call a class and then I'm going to call my form
info form and technically this is a name you can choose whatever you want.
So I'm just using info form and what I'm going to do isn't going to inherit from flask form so I'll
say flask form as our inheritance and this is just a general class.
And right now we're going to just say that this is a class form that just grabs information about puppies.
So I want to know the breed of a puppy who's filling in this form and we're going to have that just
be a string field because they can say hey I'm a labrador or a tree I'm a Labrador I'm a golden retriever
and a pit bull etc..
So typically the way it works is you're going to import certain fields from w t forms and then you're
going to provide parameters that relate to that field.
First drink field you're just going to automatically put in the string here for the label.
So what breed are you.
So we pass in a stream that directly connects the label to this string field.
Later on we'll see dropdown fields that are a little more complex as far as the parameters it choose.
But Springfields are pretty straightforward.
And then we want a submit field.
Notice how we're just setting these as attributes of the class.
So say submit field and then we'll pass and submit.
OK so this class in full form is a class of my choosing and I'm inheriting from flask form that is imported
here on line to Flast the T.F. import flask form.
Then my info form has two attributes breedings submit and these attributes are going to be something
I can send back to my template and the related to fields of the form.
So I have a string field asking what breed and a submit field an essay previously mentioned during the
slides often We're going to actually put these forms in their own separate forms that py file but keep
things simple for now.
We're going to keep them in the same field that are in the same script that we have here.
So now let's set up our view function we'll say apt that route.
I want to send this to the index page and then we're going to set a parameter methods for gets and post
and that's going to allow us to actually pass in this form to the template I'll say index.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going to set a breed variable to the boolean false so we can use it
as an IF statement in the T.M. so to say Breede starts off as false and later on you'll see why do that
when we actually deal the index like C.M..
So I said Breede to false and then I'm going to create an instance of the form.
So I will say four is equal to an instance of info form that is how open closed predecease here then
I do the following logic.
I want to check if the form is valid on submission.
And we'll talk about validation in more detail later on.
But basically say if form validly on submit.
Open close print sees essentially all the validators are met and they hit submit.
Then I want to grab the data from the form.
So I do the following.
I say a brief variable is equal to that form.
Breed data and then I'm going to reset the form's breed data to be empty.
So then say form the breed data is equal to an empty string.
And then after all this I'm going to say return render template and then just go back to my home page
essentially just a simple refresh here.
White pasand form is to form and breed is equal to breed.
And then finally at the very bottom I'm going to say if name is equal to Main take my app and run it
and we'll sit de-bug equal to true OK.
Let me save that there are a lot of code going on here.
So let's break it down line by line.
First a quick review of what we did here.
We start off with our imports we create our application.
We grab our applications essentially configuration dictionary and we set the configuration for the secret
key equal to a string of our choosing.
You can call this string whatever you want.
You just going to be something secure.
And like I mentioned later on we'll see a much better way of doing this.
Then we create our form.
We create our own class of our forms choosing and we inherits from flask for then this info form is
going to have attributes here we just have a single field for what can be filled in.
We have agreed as an attribute and that's a string field asking what breed are you.
And then we have a submit attribute which is a submit field essentially a submit button and the string
you pass and to submit field is what the actual submit button will say.
So it could say something else like enter here or ready to submit really whatever you want.
Next we have our application.
We set the route to the home page and notice we now add a methods equal to get and post so we can get
and post these forms.
Then we set a breed attribute or excuse me a breed variable equal to false.
And notice that this Bredar variable is different from this breed on line 11 this breed is an attribute
of info for on line 17.
This breed is just a variable that we create an instance of reform that will say if form we evolved
on submit we grabbed the breed from formed that breed that data.
So this pattern is something you're are going to be using a lot you say form dot and then the attribute
you want here attribute breed data and that returns back data.
Those submitted for that field and you'll see more examples of this later on for it to become more clear.
And then we say we reset formed up Breede that data equal to an empty string and essentially line 17
and line 21 are going to make a lot more sense when we actually play around with the template then we
return template home and pass in the form of pasand to breed.
So let's see how line 17 and how Line 21 fully work by going to index that each team.
And setting up index studies smell essentially our home page we're going to do the following here.
Let's set up a paragraph variable and I have to do the following.
I'll say an if statement so it will say if Breede
then I will say the breed you entered was or I ask say is and then I'm going to pass in the variable
update it in the form below.
And then I want to have an else statement here I'll say else please enter your Breede and save that.
So what is this actually doing.
Remember if we come back to basic I'm passing in Breede to my home template the default for Breede is
equal to false which means it's going to say if breed and that's going to hit trigger falls.
So the very first thing the user sees when they hit this home page is going to say please and to your
breed.
So then below that what I'm going to do is have a form to say weps form.
There you go.
And we can delete class and action.
So it's not really redirecting at least not with age T.M. and the method is going to be post and I like
putting posts in all caps.
Technically that shouldn't matter.
By know for some weird combinations of operating systems and flask you do need to have it in all caps
but just keep in mind it should work even if it's in lowercase.
So that method is legal to post and then we do the following inputs.
So in our form we're going to pass in some variables we're going to say form dots hidden underscore
tag and that's for the see SRF security feature.
And then we're going to say form that breed label.
There we go.
And then right next to it we're going to say form thought Breede
and then we'll say here form the Submit open close princes.
OK so now you're wondering well what the heck are these three lines doing.
So let's take a closer look at them and they're going to separate them out just a little bit here.
Spacing so we can read them more clearly.
Remember that I'm actually passing in a form object.
If we come back here at the base about pi I said for Ezekial to form or remember form is this info form
and in full form has two attributes has breed and submit.
So when I come over here and I call DOT breed and that submit those are actually the attributes I'm
calling over here and those are connected to fields.
You should also keep in mind that since I'm inheriting from Plus form there's going to be attributes
and methods that even though I don't type them here I'm still going to have availability of them.
And that's where hidden attack comes in.
Hidden tag that's going to be available to us because we inherited from flask form.
So even though we didn't define it here that's where it's coming from.
So we have this security method hidden tag and then we say formed up Breede which remember is this string
field and then the string field.
Well you can do is you can either ask for its label which is the string that we pass and here what breed
are you.
Or you can ask to actually execute Breede which is then going to make a little string field box for
you in your form.
And typically you're going to do both.
You're going to have the label that you provided and then insert the actual box to fill in or the radio
button or whatever it happens to be in your form right next to it.
And then at the very bottom you're going to call the submit method.
So that's our basic form.
Let's make sure we save this.
And let's run this and see what happens.
Make sure we didn't make any mistakes here.
So Pythonesque the pie looks like it's running.
Let me bring in over my browser so we can see this in action.
And looking at my Yoro looks like I have a template not found there.
It's his home but he's still not found.
Looks like I called index studies.
So let's quickly fix that.
We're going to come down here.
It says home that each team out let's fix that to be indexed still.
Save that.
Now that we fix that let's bring in over a browser that says please and to your breed what breed are
you.
I'm going to say I'm a lab and then hit submit and then updates because remember breed is no longer
false.
Now breed is an actual string lab.
So it says if breed and string is going to be treated as true so then it says the breed entered his
lab update it in the form below.
So if I want to update this to maybe I want to be a shepherd hit submit.
And now it's going to update again because remember it reloads that and it grabs that data from the
form so it says Breede Ezekial to form the data and then it resets that data to be an empty string.
The reason we reset it to be an empty string is so that I don't see something being filled in here.
I just see the Breit I previously entered that I can continually update it.
And so as I just type in stuff here I get to see it being updated over and over again.
OK.
So those are the very basics.
So a very quick rundown of the different components here.
To get a lot more practice of this so don't worry too much if it's not all clicking just yet when you
see multiple examples of using W.T. of forms it's going to become a lot clearer.
The main ideas here is that we have from Flast WITF and we import a flask form then we get to import
whatever fields you want to use in our form from W.T. forms in the next lecture.
We'll talk a lot more detail about the different fields that are available to you.
Then you set up your application you set up your applications configuration secret key as a string as
it keeps saying we'll figure out a better way to do this later on.
So it's not so public.
Then you create your own forum class.
You say class in full form.
You inherit from flask form and then you sign on the fields that your forms actually going to have.
Our form is quite simple had just one field that we decided to call breed and we set that two string
field and then we passed in the label though would that be displayed.
What breed are you.
And then we have a submit button set as a submit field and then we have at that route we set it to the
home page and we also want to add in methods equal to this list and post and then we did the following
logic line 17 and lines 21 were essentially four more for the template logic we set breeds equal to
false.
We create an instance of reform we validate on submit and we say if the form is valid on submission
then we set breed and we actually grab the data from Breit So we say a form that read that data and
this sort of form attribute that data that's something you're to see a lot.
Then we've reset that data to an empty stream and we render the template passing in the form and the
breed.
So notice when we pass in the first time it's false which means it's going to ask for you to please
enter your breed when it's not false.
Essentially saying if something that's not false like a string like entering a lab that will say the
Breguet entered is a breed you provided updated in the form below and then the way you actually connect
the form to the template is passing in the form.
Remember we said form is the form here.
And you can call off the attributes a method of the form you're always going to need to have the hit
tag in order for the security feature to work for these forms.
And then you can call form dot your attribute your label and then form your breed some to know if sometimes
you want to set your own class to these forms.
So we can do that is inside of this breed call a consent class equal to whatever some CSSA classes.
So that's the way you can stylize these forms.
So maybe you want I don't know some border around the label or the submit button.
You can just pass and class equal to and then the name of your C Ss class won't be messing around too
much of CSSA in this case so we'll just leave that blank and then we have the summit.
OK.
And then we can see how that connected.
And remember we say method is to post here because we're posting information.
All right.
Thanks.
And we'll see you at the next lecture where we discuss form fields and a lot more detail.